Heimdall comeback in this video we're looking at an introduction to unit test now unit test is a framework
in Python used for testing and it's built into Python so you don't have to install it or anything like
that.
What is testing a test just verifies whether something works or not.
Now it's similar to assertions in a way an assertion verifies whether something has a correct value
or not but a test is a slightly larger.
And it's used to run something externally and see whether a method or a class is doing what it should
be doing.
The best way to look at this is with a couple examples.
So let's create a new file here which I'm going to call testing and then I'm going to paste in our currency
class which is a small class the currency class as you remember has an innate method a set amount method
which changes the amount property.
And I can then load in an amount of USD dollars and change it to its own currency.
Or it can convert itself or an amount to US dollars and then it has a few methods to check for equality
greater than less than so.
So a small class that just simulates a currency.
OK.
Apologies for that.
So what we want to do is then verify that it is working properly that the methods that we have implemented
do what we think they should do.
So we are going to create a class called currency test and the family has test in the name is important
.
And then I'm going to put in unit test dot test case ask the superclass.
We have to import unit tests so let's go to the top of the file and import unit test from there.
OK.
So then we have this currency test class at the bottom which is a subclass of test case in inside the
unit test package.
OK.
Then inside this currency test class we can create tests.
Each test should verify that one single thing works properly and it does what it should do.
Remember it's important that it's one thing or one small subset of functionality
from good to great.
The first test which I'm calling test create currency.
The fact that it has test in the name is important as that tells unit test that this is something that
should be executed when we run the tests.
We're going to look at what that means soon.
So test create currency is the name of the test and this test this method here should verify that a
single thing or a small subset of functionality works properly instead of pass.
We're going to be verifying that the creation of a currency is correct.
OK.
So we're going to create a currency called pounds and I'm going to give you the code GBP and the exchange
rate of one point twenty one.
Now what we want to verify in the test currency is that the pound's code is GBP and that the pounds
exchange rate is one point twenty one.
It sounds silly We've created the LBS object and we've given it GBP on one point twenty one surely pounds
dog food is going to be GBP surely pounds not exchange the USD is going to be one point twenty one.
We've got it up here self-dual code equals code.
So the code comes in there and then it's assigned to Southdale code exchange to us the comes in there
and it's the same two safter exchanged or USD.
This seems boring seems obvious.
We know that Pound's that code is going to be GBP because of the way we've created the program.
We know that Pound's not exchange to us is going to be one point twenty one because of the way you treated
the program.
But what if we messed up when creating the program we thought we did something but really we did something
else.
For example we did this by accident which a lot of my students do and don't be afraid of you are one
of them.
It happens to everybody.
Imagine that we put a comma there at the end.
OK let's leave the comma up there for now and let's write our test.
We know that DBP should be pounds of code 1.0 anyone should be Pound's not exchange to us.
How do we tell the test to make sure that that is correct.
Well we do not assert equal self don't assert equal.
And then here two things that should be equal Pound's not code and GBP self-torture at equal Pound's
don't exchange to us the 1.20.
So the two parameters should be equal the two parameters to the assert equal method should be equal
that's what it verifies so pounds not code should be GBP pounds or exchange to USD should be 1.20.
That's what this test is verifying.
And now we can right click it on page form and run it.
Notice how it fails it fails because it tells us Pound's not code is not equal to GBP.
It's saying this thing here is not equal to this thing.
This thing here is Pound's dot code.
This thing here is this string there.
So basically we've noticed that we made a mistake we made a mistake because the code inside the pound's
object is not equal to what we would expect it to be which is DBP and that is through the comma there
.
Now I've removed the comma from the code and we can run this again.
And now it does pass.
OK.
What the comma was doing is it was converting an this variable here into a tuple.
It was basically converting it into a tuple like this and a tuple is not the same as a variable is not
the same as a normal variable.
So it was failing because we were converting this thing to what happened there.
If we do that these end up being topples so self ex change us the it would be a topple self that code
would be a table.
And they are not the same as the plane.
String and plane float.
Now we have them by creating this test we now know whenever we run this fast that we can verify the
currents the object is being created correctly.
If we then go back and change this in its method we add something to it.
We change something we rewrite something we can just run the test again and if it passes we know that
we didn't break anything.
And that's good because it means that we don't have to waste time manually verifying everything.
This is now an automated test which just verified it for us and gives us a bit of confidence that the
code that we've written works as we intended it.
It does not give us 100 percent confidence.
Don't get me wrong just because this test passes doesn't mean that the currency object is working perfectly
but it gives us a bit of confidence that that small subset of functionality does work.
Let's get another one for your learning
and we'll call it test compare currency and that's going to test whether the currency comparisons do
work or not.
OK so I'm going to create an other lbs object and I euros object
like so and I'm going to say Poundstone cents amount to five thousand euros that Cent amount to 10 and
then we're going to himself don't assert equal pounds and don't amount is 5000.
So the research equal Euros don't set amount.
Sorry eurozone amount 10 AM and apologies I'm going to rename the test instead of compay currency is
going to set a test set amount and go.
So now this is testing whether setting the amount of currency works and we can once again run that test
and see that it does work and then we can go and test compare accuracy.
Once again I'm going to just copy that and now what I want to compare is euros and pounds to see if
the builtin methods equal greater than less than less than or equal to create an equal to work.
OK so what to do is saying self don't assert true.
Now we're no longer using assert equal.
We're using assert true Pound's is greater than Euros.
We know this should be true because we've got £5000 and only 10 euros.
So we can say this should be true.
I assert that this is true and if it is then the test will pass.
So let's Right-Click and run it and it does pass.
So now we know that it does work.
We can also say self-model cert false Pound's is less than Euros.
We know that should be false.
So we can run that and it does still pass.
So we know we have not made a mistake yet.
Finally we can also say self-taught assert false Pound's equal equal use.
We know that that should also be false.
Finally I'm going to create another test compare currency with equal value.
So when the currencies have equal value.
OK.
So I'm going to create one called pounds and euros so apologies like that I'm going to create these
two pounds and pounds too.
And they're both going to have exactly the same value.
And this is going to be the same there.
So what I've created is essentially two currency objects with the same code same exchange rate and same
value.
So we know that our pounds are greater than or equal two pounds two should be true.
And that's what we are asserting where we know that pounds less than or equal to pounds too should also
be true because they are equal.
And finally pounds equal equal two pounds two should also be true but false should be pounds greater
than pounds to fall should be pounds less than pounds too.
So now we're asserting a few things here which is what things should be true when the currencies are
of equal value least the what currency should be false when the things are of equal value which is greater
than less.
So we can run that and that process again.
Here's a challenge for you right a couple of methods to test the other two functions the in currency
and the two us the methods that we've got in the currency object.
These two here wrote a couple of tests for them following this sort of convention that we've set here
asserting that things are equal or things are true or false.
Hopefully you managed.
Let's break that together then test compare them.
Test in currency and I'm going to get the pounds here and then I'm going to say self don't assert equal
pounds don't in currency.
Twelve hundred and ten.
We know that.
Twelve hundred and ten dollars should give me one thousand pounds.
OK.
So let's run this now and it does pass.
So the two of them ten dollars in currency in pounds should be equal to 1000 pounds.
So when we assert equal we know that this does work the way we intended it to
and test to us the once again we're going to do essentially the same thing but we've created a pound's
object and we were asserting is that pounds to us the 1000 should give us twelve hundred and ten USPS
essentially the conversion on the other way around.
We're just testing that it works we're going to run that and it does so that's fantastic.
We've used the two methods to do our tests and there is only one more thing that I wanted to show you
which is very useful which is how to test things that raise exceptions.
You may think well why do we need to test things at these exceptions.
Or maybe you're thinking I've never done that before.
Nothing I'll ever have to.
But the truth is you probably will.
Because raising exceptions happens all the time.
It is possible that in the future you will need to test something that raises an exception.
So it's good for you to know how to do that.
So I'm going to create a method called test comparison with exceptions.
And what I'm going to do is say and treat my Pound's object.
Pound's not said van that amounts to one thousand and now I'm going as a self-taught assert equal Pound's
to us the story and not solely so as not assert true Pound's equal 1000.
Now pyjama is smart and it tells us that type it doesn't have the expected attributes to us because
pi charm is reading the each new method up here and it's seeing that we're calling that to us the method
on other.
So it's telling us that one thousand the value 1000 doesn't have to us the method pyjamas smart but
we can't ensure that there will always be there.
So what will happen when we run this when we assert to true that LBS is equal to 1000.
Well as expected we get an attribute error because the int 1000 doesn't have an attribute called to
USD.
The end.
An object has few attributes and to us that is not one of them.
So what we have to do is say we self-taught assert raisings value error
found a value or is attribute Harrah actually ran the lottery winner pound equally you could do out
.
Now we are going to what this is saying is making sure that the following code raises and attribute
error.
Run the following code and the code that we're running is pounde equal equal 1000.
When we run this test now it passes because this code here did raise an attribute error.
If we type value error however this will fail because of the actually Butera.
So this has to be an attribute error because the code here is raising an attribute error.
And what we are comparing or what we are asserting is that the code below the with statement does reads
an attribute error.
Ok so now we know that we cannot compare pounds to numbers and things like that.
OK this was just a quick introduction to testing using unit test and there's loads of testing about
testing is really important to make sure that whenever you make changes to your code whenever you add
to your code you can just run your tests and verify give you a bit of confidence that things work.
It's not 100 percent safe.
It doesn't give you 100 percent confidence.
It doesn't mean just because your tests pass that your code is working perfectly but it helps it helps
a bit.
So it's always good to write tests for the code that you are writing.
Also if you find it very difficult to write tests for your code that is not a sign that you shouldn't
test it's a sign that your code is not written well.
Code should be testable and if it's not then you have to think about how to redesign your code re-engineer
it so that it is testable and that usually entails having small methods that do small things and a lot
of those things.
But I don't want to keep you for too long.
Just wanted to give you an introduction to unit test and testing with Python and why.
Sometimes useful and to encourage you to read more on that and to learn more about unit testing in general
and especially in pite.
Also as a leaving note you don't have to run your tests one by one.
You can just run the entire class like so and that runs all of the tests in the next section.
We are going to be looking at and data structures and algorithms and I am going to provide you with
some exercises and those exercises have attached a set of tests and those tests will let you verify
that the code you've written doesn't work well and I've written the tests.
You will be right in the code.
And we're going to be working together on that.
But I'll wait until the next section to talk with you more about that.
So please don't go anywhere.
Let's move straight onto the next section in the next few videos where I'm going to be talking about
or rather we are going to be looking at algorithms and data structures.
So without further ado.
Thanks for joining me and I'll see you in the very next one.